Clinical Guidelines for the Use of Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition in Adult and Pediatric Patients 77. Journal of Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition. Volume 36 Number 1 January 2012 77-80. \u00a9 2012 American Society for Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition. 10.1177/0148607111420157 http://jpen.sagepub.com. hosted at http://online.sagepub.com. Introduction. As an interdisciplinary organization dedicated to advancing the science and practice of nutrition support therapy the American Society for Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition (A.S.P.E.N.) works vigorously to support quality patient care, education, and research in the fields of nutrition and metabolic support in all healthcare settings. To promote safe and effective patient care by nutrition support practitioners, the A.S.P.E.N. Board of Directors published \"Guidelines for the Use of Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition in Adult and Pediatric Patients\" in 19931 and 2002. The format and methodology of the Clinical Guidelines (CG)s have changed over time, as a result of A.S.P.E.N.'s ongoing efforts to improve the clarity and usefulness of the guidelines. The Institute of Medicine (IOM) has recently redefined Clinical Practice Guidelines as \"statements that include recommendations intended to optimize patient care that are informed by a systematic review of evidence and an assessment of the benefits and harms of alternative care options.\". To be trustworthy IOM states that CGs should be based on a systematic Address correspondence to: Charlene W. Compher PhD, RD CNSC, LDN, FADA, University of Pennsylvania School of Nursing, Claire M. Fagin Hall, 418 Curie Boulevard Philadelphia, PA 19104-4217; email: compherc@nursing.
upenn.edu. review of existing evidence, be developed by a knowledgeable, multidisciplinary panel of experts with representatives from key affected groups, consider important patient preferences as appropriate, be based on a transparent process to minimize biases and conflicts of interest, provide an explanation between logical alternative care options and health outcomes, rate both quality of evidence and strength of recommendations, and be revised when important new evidence warrants. In 2009,4 rather than publishing a single, allencompassing compilation of guideline recommendations, A.S.P.E.N. began to issue a series of focused CG documents addressing specific nutrition support practices in age and diagnostic groups.
More recently, A.S.P.E.N moved to endorse the recommendations of a working group for the Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluations (GRADE),4-6 with modifications needed for nutrition support research while continuing A.S.P.E.N.'s rigorous review and approval processes. This paper provides the reader with an introduction to the GRADE methodology as applied to A.S.P.E.N Clinical Guidelines. Background. The implementation of the GRADE methodology represents a further advance in the process of guideline development at A.S.P.E.N. The GRADE system was developed to standardize clinical guideline language and grade levels across documents from many professional organizations. Clinical Guidelines for the Use of Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition in Adult and Pediatric Patients: Applying the GRADE System to Development of A.S.P.E.N. Clinical Guidelines. Mary Ellen Druyan, PhD, MPH, RD, CNS, FACN;
Charlene Compher, PhD, RD, CNSC, LDN, FADA;
Joseph I. Boullata, PharmD, RPh, BCNSP;
Carol L. Braunschweig, PhD, RD; Donald E. George, MD;
Edwin Simpser, MD; and Patricia A. Worthington, MSN, RN, CNSN;
and the American Society for Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition (A.S.P.E.N.) Board of Directors. Clinical Guideline 78 Journal of Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition / Vol. 36, No. 1, January 2012. The number of professional organizations (Box 1) that have endorsed or are using GRADE since its introduction in 2004 attests to an emerging consensus regarding the applicability of this system across a broad spectrum of clinical circumstances. In addition, GRADE separates into two distinct processes the evaluation of the body of evidence from the statement of a recommendation. Situations may exist, for example, in which consideration of clinical risk results in a strong recommendation despite relatively weak published evidence. The GRADE process is rigorous, provides the basis for clinically relevant recommendations and includes tables of evidence with complete references that serve as a resource to readers seeking more in depth information. Box 2 provides further information regarding the advantages of the GRADE system over other approaches to development of CGs. The A.S.P.E.N. Clinical Guidelines are based on a series of pertinent clinical questions that have been articulated by the authors, Clinical Guidelines Editorial Board, reviewers, and A.S.P.E.N. members. A careful search of the published literature is used to find the best available evidence to answer the question. Each identified article is then evaluated with its data entered into an Evidence Table for each question (Table 1). The GRADE system recognizes that the quality of the available evidence underlies our confidence in any recommendation that is made (Table 2). Clinical studies that are randomized controlled trials (RCT) are recognized as the strongest published clinical Box 1. Organizations that have Endorsed or are using GRADE Methodology. \u2022 Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ)
\u2022 American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases
\u2022 American College of Chest Physicians
\u2022 American Gastroenterological Association (AGA)
\u2022 American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy . (ASGE)
\u2022 American Thoracic Society
\u2022 British Medical Journal
\u2022 CDC's Healthcare Infection Control Practices Advisory Committee (HICPAC)
\u2022 Cochrane Collaboration
\u2022 Endocrine Society
\u2022 Infectious Diseases Society of America
\u2022 Society of Critical Care Medicine (SCCM)
\u2022 Society for Vascular Surgery
\u2022 Surviving Sepsis
\u2022 Upto Date
\u2022 World Health Organization (WHO). Source: GRADE Working Group7. Box 2. Advantages of GRADE Methodology in Developing Clinical Guidelines. \u2022 Developed by a widely representative group of international guideline developers. \u2022 Clear separation between quality of evidence and strength of recommendations. \u2022 Explicit evaluation of the importance of outcomes of alternative management strategies. \u2022 Explicit, comprehensive criteria for downgrading and upgrading quality of evidence ratings. \u2022 Transparent process of moving from evidence to recommendations. \u2022 Explicit acknowledgment of values and preferences
\u2022 Clear, pragmatic interpretation of strong versus weak recommendations for clinicians, patients, and policy makers. \u2022 Useful for systematic reviews and health technology assessments, as well as guidelines. Adapted from: Guyatt GH, Oxman AD, Vist G, et al for the GRADE Working Group. GRADE: an emerging consensus on rating quality of evidence and strength of recommendations. BMJ 2008;336:924-926. Table 1. Evidence Table Question 1. Author (ref #) Year Study Design, Quality Population Setting, N Study Objective Results Comments. Table 2. The Quality of Evidence and Definitions. Quality Definition. High Further research is very unlikely to change our confidence in the estimate of effect. Moderate Further research is likely to have an important impact on our confidence in the estimate of effect and may change the estimate. Low Further research is very likely to have an important impact on our confidence in the estimate of effect and is likely to change the estimate. Very low Any estimate of effect is very uncertain. Adapted from: Guyatt GH, Oxman AD, Vist G, et al for the GRADE Working Group. GRADE: an emerging consensus on rating quality of evidence and strength of recommendations.
BMJ 2008;336:924-926.Clinical Guidelines / Druyan et al 79. evidence, however weaknesses in the design or implementation of the RCT will decrease the quality of that evidence. Many research reports with nutrition support outcomes are observational, either prospective or retrospective reports of clinical outcomes associated with a given therapy (but not randomized, controlled protocoldriven care). The evidence provided by these observational studies is strengthened, however, when the effects shown are strong, when the sample size is large, or when there is a doseresponse relationship. The criteria in Table 3 are used to adjust the evidence grade based on assessment of the quality of study design and execution. When the only available evidence is expert opinion most commonly from expert panels, then the quality of the evidence is very low. After all references have been evaluated, the authors meet to decide by consensus the recommendation that should be made. Table 4 is the GRADE Table that summarizes the body of evidence to support a given recommendation and states the grade or strength of that recommendation. Table 5 describes the standard language and rationale for the grade assigned to a recommendation. The A.S.P.E.N Clinical Guidelines process retains the many layers of internal, external, and legal review that have taken place in earlier guidelines documents. These combined efforts should result in transparent, evidencebased, safe and effective clinical guidelines for use in nutrition support decisionmaking, using the best available evidence at the time of the review. An ongoing literature search has been implemented in order to monitor when new publications suggest a need to reevaluate a given topic and its clinical guideline. Acknowledgments. A.S.P.E.N. Board members: Charles Van Way, MD; Jay Mirtallo, MS, RPh, BCNSP, FASHP; Tom Jaksic, MD PhD; Lawrence Robinson, PharmD; Stephen McClave MD; Mark DeLegge, MD; Carol Ireton-Jones, PhD, RD; Table 3. GRADE Criteria for Grading Evidence for Each Question. Type of Evidence Initial Grade Criteria to Decrease Grade Criteria to Increase Grade Final Quality Grade. RCT High Study Limitations Serious (\u22121) or very serious (\u22122) limitation to study quality Consistency Important inconsistency (\u22121)
Directness Some (\u22121) or major (\u22122) uncertainty about directness Precision Imprecise or sparse data (\u22121)
Publication bias High probability of reporting bias (\u22121). Strong Association Strong evidence of association\u2014. significant relative risk of > 2 (< 0.5) based on consistent evidence from two or more observational studies, with no plausible confounders (+1) Very strong evidence of association\u2014
significant relative risk of > 5 (< 0.2) based on direct evidence with no major threats to validity (+2) Doseresponse gradient Evidence of a dose response gradient (+1)
Unmeasured Confounders All plausible confounders would have reduced the effect (+1). High Moderate Low Very Low. OBS Low Expert Opinion Very Low Very Low. Adapted from: Grade Working Group. Grading quality of evidence and strength of recommendations. BMJ 2004, 328 (7454): 1490-
1494. OBS, observational study; RCT, randomized controlled trial. Table 4. GRADE Table Question 1. Comparison Result Quantity, Type Evidence Findings GRADE of Evidence for Outcome. Overall Recommendation GRADE 80 Journal of Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition / Vol. 36, No. 1, January 2012. Elizabeth Lyman, MSN, RN; Ainsley Malone, MS, RD;
Frederick Schwenk, MD; Daniel Teitelbaum, MD. References. A.S.P.E.N. Board of Directors. Guidelines for the use of parenteral and enteral nutrition in adult and pediatric patients. JPEN J Parenter Enteral Nutr1993;17:1SA -52SA. A.S.P.E.N. Board of Directors. Guidelines for the use of parenteral and enteral nutrition in adult and pediatric patients [errata in JPEN 2002;26(2):144]. JPEN J Parenter Enteral Nutr 2002;
26:1SA-138SA. Institute of Medicine. Clinical Guidelines we can trust. Brief report. March 2011. The National Academies Press Web site.
http://books.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=13058. Accessed March 28, 2011. American Society for Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition (A.S.P.E.N.)
Board of Directors. Clinical Guidelines for the Use of Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition in Adult and Pediatric Patients, 2009. JPEN J Parenter Enteral Nutr 2009;33:255-259. Guyatt GH, Oxman AD, Vist G, et al for the GRADE Working Group. GRADE: an emerging consensus on rating quality of evidence and strength of recommendations. BMJ 2008;336:924-926. Swiglo BA, Murad MH, Schunemann, et al. A case for clarity consistency and helpfulness: stateoftheart clinical practice guidelines in Endocrinology using the grading of recommendations, assessment, development, and evaluation system. J Clin Endocrin Metab 2008, 93(3): 666-673. GRADE Working Group. Organizations that have endorsed or that are using GRADE. http://www.gradeworkinggroup.org/society/
index.htm. Accessed June 17, 2011. GRADE Working Group. Grading quality of evidence and strength of recommendations. BMJ 2004;328:1490-1494. Table 5. Developing and Grading the Clinical Guideline Recommendation. Quality of Evidence Weighing Risks vs. Benefits GRADE Recommendation Clinical Guideline Statement. High to very low Net benefits outweigh harms Strong We recommend High to very low Tradeoffs for patient are important Weak We suggest High to very low Uncertain tradeoffs Further research needed We cannot make a recommendation at this time. Adapted from: Grade Working Group. Grading quality of evidence and strength of recommendations. BMJ 2004, 328 (7454): 1490-
1494.8
